WELCOME TO THE COURSE:

HTML and CSS are the building blocks of the web.
HTML is is simple compared to CSS, so it's mostly CSS and we'll cover everything
from basic properties like colors and font sizes to the box model, flexbox, CSS grids, pseudo selectors,
So version control with git will will deploy a couple websites to services like Netlify and Vercel.
Purchase domain name & host a website

HOW THE WEB WORKS:

URL - Uniform Resource Locator (https://facebook.com)
https -- protocal
facebook.com -- dommain name

client -----------> server (Domain Name System)
       http request 
       http response

HTTP - hypertext transfer protocol

Communication language of the client & server
that allows browsers and other clients to talk to
servers and vice versa.

https --> secured data is encrypted
HTTP is stateless, which means that each request response cycle is independent from previous transactions.
When you refresh a web page, it's a completely different request than the last refresh and nothing
Now, sometimes you may see like a like a welcome message with your name, and it's there on every refresh. That name is being stored in something called a session, or through cookies on either the server or
Now when you make an HTTP request, you also get back a status code.
200 is a successful response.If you go to URL that doesn't exist, then that's a not found.
That's a 404 status code, and you've probably seen that before.

And once you get into JavaScript and you get into APIs and all that, this stuff becomes much more important.
There's also different types of requests that can be made with HTTP.

The most common is called a Get request.
This is when you're just getting data.
And this is the type of request that's made when you just visit a website.
But there's also post requests, which is when you're sending something to the data, typically through
a web form.There's also put requests for updating data and delete requests for deleting data.

And if you click on Netflix.com, this is basically the main page, the main request.
You can see the URL.
You can see the request method which remember is a Get request when you just simply go to a website.
And then the status code which is 200, which means everything is okay, and the remote IP address,
um, there's stuff down here like in the response headers.
Extension: quick view source

THE ROLE OF HTML,CSS & JAVASCRIPT:

HTML --> content & structure -- Headings,Paragraphs,Lists,Images,Links,Tables
It stands for Hypertext Markup Language, and it's the standard markup language for documents that are
designed to be displayed in web browsers.

CSS --> CSS stands for Cascading Style Sheets, and it's a style sheet language used for describing the
presentation of documents written in HTML.
CSS describes how elements should be styled and rendered on the screen.
And you can do everything from colors, fonts, spacing, layout.
You can even do really complex animations and transitions.
There's a ton that you can do with CSS.
And the role of CSS is presentation and styling.

Javascript --> (dynamic and interactive)  JavaScript is a programming language, and it can be used to make your web pages dynamic and interactive.
Things like modals, pop ups, form validation.They're controlled by JavaScript, but they do also integrate parts of CSS.
For instance, when you have a hamburger menu that you click on and you have a menu slide in, you know,
from the top or whatever, you're doing a lot of, of, um, stuff with CSS as well.
You're adding and removing classes and so on.You can also directly change the style of elements through JavaScript.

So HTML, CSS and JavaScript are client side technologies.This means that they're rendered on the client machine and in the browser.
When you go to a website, the HTML file is downloaded to your computer along with any CSS and any other
resources and then rendered by the browser.

when you look at websites like Amazon or Facebook, these are web applications and they have a
lot of functionality.Things like authentication, shopping carts, profiles, messaging, all this stuff is not possible
with client side technologies.You need a server that's running a server side language such as PHP, Python, C, sharp, Java, or
even JavaScript because JavaScript can run on the server using a runtime such as NodeJS, which is actually
Now these server side languages also have access to a database, and this is where data like the users
that register.On you, you know, through your website or through your application or stored or your products.
You know, all the products on Amazon with the descriptions and names and pictures.
Those are all stored in databases.If you have a blog, your blog posts are stored in databases, and you can't access a database from
the client or also called the front end, you need to have server side programming for that.







